Online marketers send tons of outreach emails to connect with potential customer to let them know about content, ask for backlinks, or to accomplish any other marketing goal. They implement different tactics to increase open rates and get more replies, but the big fish isn’t yet in a hurry to swallow the bait. The task is not just restricted to opening the email, but to bring the customer to click on the link provided, which will lead to website visits. A successful email campaign is when people actually convert or take some action on your email and subsequently your website.

Use a professional email address
You need to make sure to select an appropriate name and professional email address. It will help you to avoid getting into spam of the recipient and second it will form an opinion of you being a competent brand. A Gmail or a domain-branded address enhances your email opening chances.

Customers receive tons of emails daily, so make sure to put your name and company’s detailed information to your email signature because they make it easier for your recipients to browse you and to decide if you are a good fit.

Curate an appealing subject line
A subject line matters as it is the first thing people read on getting the emails. It helps to decide whether you want to open and continue reading your contents. As a marketer, your task is to spark their interest. A boring or spam headline will automatically alert the user to not open the email at all.

Precise personalization with a subscriber’s name
You need to personalize your subject lines with your recipient’s name as it fares better than generic greetings. A great way to capture the attention of the recipient is by using personalization tags in the email header.

A bit of intrigue and excitement
Powerful words hold your subscribers to a deadline to act on their persuasive tactic. It helps you to understand certain situations by creating excitement and urgency:

The fear of missing out on a limited item.
Deadlines to sign up to buy something.
A sense that something is well-known available to the general public.
The opportunity to save money.
A solution to a problem.
The impression that something is new and unique.
It creates a sense of urgency which relies on creating meaning, demand, and value. So the trick here is to not be too vague or irrelevant, too formal or informal, too dense or scared. Identify your product offerings and simultaneously create a buzz around it.

Make it personal
You need to spend time on learning more details about your recipient and show that in your email. You need to know your recipient’s wants and needs before writing your outreach emails and don’t be too self-concentrated.

A quick way to start is by addressing customers by their name and use ‘You’ instead of ‘I. Make it as conversational email like the way you talk, but don’t be too informal.

Write pithily
Keep it simple: one email – one ask. You need to keep your outreach email humble otherwise it will sound brazen or demanding. Before contacting anyone, figure out exactly what you want, stick to one pleasing communication.

Send at Right Time
You need to do an A/B testing to experiment with sending time to check the exact best one for your email list. It might work for one marketer and won’t necessarily work for another one. Before sending an email, make sure that you weigh in all parameters that will contribute to your success.
